* The term operating system is commonly used with two different meaning.

To denote entire package consisting of the central software managing a computer's resources and
all of the acompanying standard software tools, such as command-line interpreters, graphical user
interfaces, file utilitites, and editors.
More narrowly, to refer to the central software that manages and allocates computer resources
i.e CPU, RAM and devices

The linux kernel executable typically resides at the pathname "/boot/vmlinuz"

In UNIX implementation, the kernel was called unix, later UNIX implementation implemented virtual 
memory, renamed kernel vmunix.
On the linux, file name mirrors system name, with the z replacing the final x to z to signify
that the kernel is a compressed executable.


* Tasks performed by the kernel:
1) Process Scheduling:
Like UNIX systems, Linux is a 'preemptive multitasking' operating systems.
Multitasking means that multiple processes can simultaneously resides in memory and each may receive
use of CPUs.
Preemptive means that the rules governing which processes receive use of the CPU and how long
are determined by the kernel process scheduler.

2) Memory Management:
Physical memory (RAM) remains a limited resource that the kernel must share among preocesses
in an equitable and efficient fashion.
    - Processes are isolated from one another and from the kernel.so that one process can't read 
    or modify the memory of another preocess or kernel.
    - Only part of a preocess needs to be kept in memory, thereby lowering the memory requirements
    of each preocess and allowing more processes to be held in RAM simultaneously.
    This leads to better CPU utilization, there is at least one process that the CPUs can execute.
 
3) Provision of file system:
The kernel provides a file system on disk, allows files to be created, retrived, updated, deleted 
and so on.

4) Creation and termination of preocesses:
The kernel can load a new program into memory, providing it with resources (CPU, memory, access to
to files) that it needs in order to tun. Such an instance of a running program is termed as process.
Kernel ensures resources it uses are freed for subsequent reuseby later program.

5) Access to devices:
The kernel provides programs with an interface that standardizes and simplifies access to devices,
while at the same time arbitrating access by multiple processes to each device.

6) Networking:
The kernel transmits and receives network messages (packets) on behalf of user processes.
Routing of network packets to the target systems.

7) Provision of system call application programming interfaces (API):
Processes can request the kernel to perform various tasks using kernel entry points knows as 
system calls.

8) Abstraction of virtual private computer:
Multiuser operating sytems. Each user can log on to the system and operate largely independently
of other users.

* Kernel Mode and User Mode:
Modern processor architectures typically allow the CPU to operate in at least two different modes:
user mode and kernel mode.
Hardware instructions allows switching from one mode to the other. 
Areas of virtual memory can be marked as being part of user space or kernel space.
When running in user mode, CPU can access only memory that is marked as being in user space; 
attempts to access only memory that is marked as being in user space; attempts to access memory 
in kernel mode, the CPU can access both user and kernel memory space.
When running in kernel mode, the CPU can access both user and kernel memory space.

* Process versus kernel views of the system
Process-oriented way
Kernel's point of view
An executing process doesn't know when it will next time out, which other processes will then be
scheduled for the CPU or when it will next time be scheduled.
The delivery of signals and the occurance interprocess communication are mediated by the kernel,
and can occur at any time by a process. 
Process doesn't know where it is located in RAM or, in general whether particular part of its
memory space is currently resident in memory or held in the swap area.
Similarly, a process doesn't know where on the disk deive the files it accesses are being held.
it simply referes files by the name. A process operates in isolation; it can't directly
communicate directly with another process. A process can't create another process by itself.
Finally process can't communicate directly with the input output devices attached to the computer.

A running system has one kernel that knows and controls everything. 
The kernel faciliates the running of all processes on the system. 
Kernel maintains data structures containing information about all running processes and updates
these structures as processes are created, change state and terminate. 
Kernel maintains all low-level data structures that enables the filesnames used by programs to be 
translated to virtual memory of each process into the physical memory of the computer and swap
areas on disks.
Kernel performs all direct communication with input and output deviesm transfering information to
and from user processes as required.
